Hello and welcome back.
This lecture we want to talk about design smells kind of a funny name for a lecture but really what
smells are is just indications in your design that you're doing something wrong.
So that the formal definition is structures and design that indicate violation of fundamental design
principles and negatively impact design quality.
That's what a design smell is.
You look at an existing design you often encounter this when you look at legacy designs legacy design
is something that was created you know maybe many years ago that's been around quite a bit.
You look at design you're like Oh my God this thing is very tight.
The couple.
This thing is very has very low cohesion.
There's all these dependencies.
I change one thing and I just broke 20 different objects.
That would be a design smell.
Looking at the actual code in the structure and right off the bat seeing things that are wrong.
And so this is good to understand in terms of how design patterns are going to help solve these issues.
So you need to understand what design smells are what are bad things in design in order to understand
good things with design.
So some general design smells that are really you know common characteristics rigid rigidity.
This is when the software is difficult to change.
It's not not good for changing or it's interest not adaptable when you make a single change it causes
a cascade of all these subsequent changes in different dependent modules.
And this is again just tight coupling.
I don't know if you've ever made one you thought oh this is an easy fix.
You went made the fix and all sudden 40 things broke and you had to make 40 different changes.
That's an example of rigidity.
The more modules that have to be changed the more rigid design.
And that's a design smell immediately.
If you go into code and you make a change in those effects 20 different things it's going to tell you
this design is very rigid.
Another example would be if your code is very fragile.
If you make one tiny little change or make one thing and it's not an it breaks it breaks in many places
when a single change is made.
Kind of similar rigidity and that one change can can cause a rippling effect except rigidity has to
do with multiple changes for agility has to do with a single change and then it just cause all these
other breakages.
They are very very similar with fragility.
The problems often occur in places that have no obvious relation to the area that was changed both again
are just really tight coupling.
You can reduce the amount of rigidity in the amount of fragility I keep probably mispronouncing that
but that's the best I can do by making your code loosely coupled as a fertility of the module increases
the likelihood that a change will introduce unexpected problems rise.
So these are the most common design smells very very closely related that affect whether or not when
you change things in mobility This is where you have parts that could be useful in other systems but
the effort and risk of separating them from the original system are just too great.
It's too much risk.
I've had that I've had that happen in a lot of code where I say you know this is gonna be this is a
really good opportunity to refactor this code to make it better but I'm afraid because if I've refactor
that code all of a sudden everything else breaks or five refactor that code I can't separate it.
I want to take that code out and I want to use it somewhere else because I like it.
But it's way too coupled and it's it's not movable.
Another common design smell viscosity.
This is one assist system would have high viscosity if for design preserving change is more difficult
to use than a hack.
So if you want to refactor your code to make sure that you adhere to the design.
But it's such a huge pain in the butt and the other option would be to just do something real quick
and dirty and called a hack.
That's a system with high viscosity.
If running unit test and compilation takes a lot of time it is likely for developer to bypass procedures
and implement a hack without running all the automated tests so you can see how this design smell can
cause a lot of problems because people always want to take the easy way out.
I see it time and time again in my job where somebody didn't want to go through the problem of doing
something correctly so they just added a hack.
Some of the times they didn't want to go through the problem of doing correctly because it was a big
pain in the butt because the design was so poor.
It's not always a fault.
I don't always fault these developers because it's just a lot of times you're just write because in
order to adhere to the design would be just too much of an issue.
So the viscosity is very high in those situations needless repetition if you look at the code you see
a ton of repetition but it's not necessary.
That is a design smell.
This happens quite a bit with new developers in terms of copying and pasting.
I encounter this quite a bit where I have to tell them hey you can't just copy paste code don't just
look for examples and don't and not understand the example fully and copy and paste it.
That usually means something's wrong.
Needs repetition happens when necessary abstractions are not being made right.
If there's not some kind of modulation or some other interface that you can use to accomplish something
to make it reusable then you'll just copy and paste it.
Usually not a good thing.
Opacity.
This is the tendency of a module to be difficult to understand a module again being here an object or
a method inside of a class when code is not written in a clear and expressive manner.
It is said to be opaque code that evolves over time tends to be more difficult to understand over time.
Again I've see this time and time and legacy code that I look at every day I look at it and I see an
object or I see a function or I see a method and I say I don't.
What's going on here.
They might even have good comments but usually that's a result of it's doing too much.
So it's not very cohesive and thus it gets propagated over time when people just start adding more and
more code to it which makes it worse and makes it more opaque needless complexity.
This tends to happen with engineers that are really really smart.
They just kind of overdo it right they add more complexity they don't always understand the client or
the person that's going to use their software.
They may be really awesome code that's fair and it may be really really overly complex.
It's not going to be used.
So one of the most important smells bad design is this extra complexity that many engineers that are
really smart tend to use.
Usually they're very passionate and they want to solve world hunger so they design for everything but
then it just becomes too complex.
They want to avoid any kind of other smells so they strive for perfection which makes things overly
complex.
They add all these different abstractions all these different interfaces upon interfaces.
They try to again solve world hunger.
They want to solve every single change is gonna happen in the future.
That's not going to happen.
It can't be perfect.
Good software design is lightweight flexible easy to read and understand and above all easy to change
just because you're smart and you can write really complex code doesn't mean it's gonna be used.
In fact it's not going to be used.
So making things less complex in addition to not worrying about it being perfect is a goal.
It's nothing's ever gonna be perfect do it the best you can design it for the future as much as you
can but don't design it for 30 years in advance.
I've had this experience quite a bit with many architects that I work with or they just overdo it.
The over engineer and I'll be like you know why you were trying to.
We don't have that problem yet.
And especially if you're doing Agile design you know you kind of want to wait until there's a poll.
There's a need to actually design something.
Having said that you also want to make sure that design is adaptable to change.
You don't want to make it just so rigid or so structured that it only works in a specific case.
So it's important design for the future but you also don't want to design for everything.
So do not over design.
That's really important.
Some specific smells in your Java code.
If you see several classes that duplicate 90 percent of each other you probably want to remove this
duplication using some kind of inheritance duplication as easy as spot because it's the same thing right.
And sometimes duplication does not just include this exact same lines of code.
It could be having the same purpose or having the same output but it's done all over the place where
you could actually just put it in one function or method or class and avoid that duplication or inheritance.
A lot of times you'll see a ton of public classes public member variables public methods.
This violates and class encapsulation.
That's a Java design smell.
Make things private or protected inheritance if you see classes that are huge.
Another design smell.
It usually means it's not very cohesive it's doing too many things.
It's not.
It doesn't have a specific responsibility.
You try to just put everything into this massive class that's reading user input making a graphical
user interface.
You know how has all these algorithms and interest doing way too much design smells often end up creating
code that is hard to read breaks very easily very fragile and it's hard to maintain.
And as I've been mentioning throughout the course maintenance is very very important.
You want to be able to find a fix your bugs very easily.
You want to add new features so avoid these design smells.
Avoid this essentially low cohesion and very tightly coupled systems.
So to summarize or repeat everything I just said which I know sometimes you guys get annoyed with because
I repeat myself a lot.
I try to avoid it but I also want to emphasize important points.
Bottom line follow good design principles as guidelines and beware of design smells that's going to
help you identify areas that can be improved.
Always strive for highly cohesive and loosely coupled solutions code and design.
Again you've heard this many times.
Hi cohesion loose coupling dependencies versus responsibilities.
Don't try to create the perfect designer architecture.
Don't over engineer you can't solve world hunger right.
You just do what you can make it as flexible and adaptable as possible.
If you need to make a more flexible adapt in the future do it in the future.
The perfect design does not exist trying to achieve it is most likely going to lead to all sorts of
complexity all this is going to lead to the conclusion that using design patterns are awesome because
they avoid these design smells they solve all these problems they strive for loosely or loosely coupled
solutions or high cohesive objects.
All right so this is why we study design patterns because it gets rid of a lot of these design smells
it makes maintenance easier it makes your life easier.
So I like to provide this summary in the slides because it really really hopefully drives you to understanding
why we study design patterns and why we use them.